in this video we will write a program for finding the roots of a quadratic equation.
So first of all what is quadratic equation, a equation of this form.
That is a polynomial of this form,  X square, X and X poverty zero.
This is x power 2, x power 1,  power 0.
There is nothing yet.
It means one is there that is x power 0.
So the higest degree is a 2.
So a polynomial of degree 2 is a quadratic expression and when it is equal to something that is 0 that
it is quadratic equation.
Then the coefficients of the highest degree term and the next degree term and the next degree term in the
decreasing order.
So these are the variables that are used here to find out the roots means what are the possible values
of x.
So we get the possible values of X if we know ABC.
So roots can be known by using this formula.
So actually we will know for what values values of x this equation will be equal to zero.
That's it. so that are roots so we'll know the values of x.
Now for this we will write a program. a program will take the input and find out the roots and give the
output.
So we will follow those steps.
So let us see what is input. input is A B and C these three variables are input and root.
The result is the output.
So far this let us first draw a flowchart.
So start a flow chart.
What is the input.
We should know the coefficients ABC.
Three things.
So inside this input output box and give a message and the coefficients enter coefficients or instead
of coefficients.
I will say enter a b and c these three values.
Now I read ABC so I should take the values.
You imagine I am a program I have to calculate the roots so then I should take ABC values from you right.
this is the coefficients, next is process so in the process.
Actually we get two roots because one is with the plus and one was minus so r1 is  the first root
and that is minus B plus and sqrt of this formula B square minus 4ac.
So this b into b  minus 4 into a into c.
I need more space, than this whole thing should be divided by two into a, yes this is the first one and
same way root2 also everything is same minus B, instead of this plus this is minus, sqrt  of b into
B minus 4 ininto a into C then by 2 into a.  I got two routes now I have to give the output that
is the result so give a message that routes are so print the message roots are then first
one is r1 and the second one is r2, r1 and R2. next  the end of a flowchart now this is similar
to the one we have seen in the previous videos also.
So you can write on the algorithm.
Now I will write on a C++ program for this fun so let us convert this flowchart into C++ program for
the very first thing you know well.
That is hash include iostream right.
So this is the first thing then we have to say.
Using namespace so say using namespace right.
Using namespace std then main function this the entry point for program.
So instead the main function what is the first thing I should do.
take input read ABC.
So I should be giving a message cout enter a b c right.
So the one who is using this program should know that ABC are the coefficients of quadratic equations.
Now I will be reading this ABC.
So when I am reading ABC I realize that these are the variables that I must declare.
Yes.
So what are the variables.
I need a b c r1, r2.
These are the variables I need.
So declare them all of them here on the top.
So I will declare all of them as float because this float is involved here.
So let us make all of them as float.
That is a b c r1 r2.
all the variables I have declared then the first one r1 assign with minus B plus same formula.
So I need not write down that same thing as it is I have written perfectly as required in C++ program.
write on this one then r2 that is the same formula.
just install plus use minus.
Then after that print.
So the result C out now.
Watch this carefully.
I will say roots are then,.
After this first root then next  second root.
But there should be space in between two values because the first time we are displaying two values
now.
So there should be space in between them.
Suppose one value is one another is one five.
There should be a space in between them.
So roots are then for the space.
Just give quotes with a blank space then gives r2 that's it. and the last thing is return 0.
So this is what because we have written int here.
So return 0 is like a formality.
Later we will learn what does it really mean by return0 in the later videos.
So that's all.
this is a C++ program so there is a coding  exercise available so you have to write on this complete formula
there so read the description and whatever is asked in that coding exercise you'll complete that.
Then after that there is a demo video on this one.
So the coding part so you have to practice that on your own machine and also there are a few more coding
exercises for the other formulas.
We have seen in the beginning when we were talking of what it's like for finding the speed and finding
the perimeter of a rectangle like that there are some more coding exercises.
So read the description and you can do that right.
So that's all about the expression and all then we will move on to the next topic.
So that's all level the expressions and all we have seen different expressions and written the programs.
Now really move to a little advance topic in the next video.